Our next challenge is to check whether a given string is a palindrome or not.
So first of all, I'll explain.
What does it mean by palindrome?
So here a string is, madam.
So if I reverse this, madam, like here, I will write down madam.
Now, first, I will write last letter.
Write this one, then this one A, then D, then a m.
So it's the same word.
So reversing a word is giving a same word.
So then this word is called as palindrome.
It's the same thing.
So reverse of a word is same as original word.
Then it is a palindrome word.
There are many palindrome words.
I'll write a few more.
Little is a palindrome.
This is name of some product or brand malayalam.
Malayalam.
This is a name of one language.
Indian language.
If you reverse.
It's the same thing.
Name of a person.
Newton.
Then reverse it.
It's the same thing.
So such words are called us palindrome.
So we have to find all this, given the string is a palindrome or not.
So for that, first of all, we should reverse it.
So I will explain you the procedure, how it can be done.
Then you have to write down the program by yourself.
So the first thing, first step, this is a given string.
Then we need one empty string in which we will reverse copy this string.
So we should copy this letter first into this empty string, then a, then D, then a, then we have
to reverse copy it and then also include null character at the end.
So this is how from by scanning in this direction, you can copy these letters by scanning this array
in this direction from left to right.
So this is string is reversed.
So it is reverse copied.
Now you have to find out whether these two strings are same so you can compare two strings.
So there are built in functions for comparing two strings.
Otherwise you can compare letter by letter.
And if any letter is found different from corresponding letter, you can just stop and say it's not
a palindrome.
Or if you have reached the end of the string for both main string and the reverse string, you have
reached the null character for both.
Then you can say they are palindromes.
So I repeat quickly, first you have to copy this in reverse here and then compare if they are same
or not.
Now how to reverse copy.
So first of all, you should know what is the length of the string.
So for finding the length you have built in functions or you can find out the length by yourself also.
So find out the length and the length of the string will be five.
So you have to start copying the letters from index four onwards.
Write whatever the length is, minus one onwards, up to zero.
And here you can scan by taking a from left to right.
And once you have reached the end here last letter, then also add slash zero.
So find the length and copy the letters one by one.
And this a string you can simply call compare function by passing a reverse of a string and it will
return zero if they are equal.
So that's all I have given enough idea for solving this problem.
So you try to write the programme by yourself.
So pause the video here and solve the programme by yourself.
If you are unable to solve or if you want help, then you can continue watching this video.
Now I will show you the programme for checking a string is a palindrome or not.
Already I have taken a string containing a palindrome that is Madam.
Now, for storing the reverse of it, I should declare a variable V I'll keep it empty.
Now I should make sure that the capacity of this RV should be same as this star.
So for that, I should change its size by calling this size.
So first of all, I will find out what is the length of this one.
So I will say end length.
Assign struct length.
Here.
I'm getting a warning.
So the reason is actually this lent function returns long end survival type cost it as integer and ticket.
Now for RTV, I should say resize and make sure that the size is equal to land.
That is same as the length of the str.
Now I have to scan through this string that is reverse string for copying the content from STR and from
STR.
I'll be copying from right hand side.
So for scanning through I will take a follow an integer I assign zero.
This is for V and also I need J that is J starts from length minus one and I should continue scanning
of reverse as long as I is less than length.
So I less than Len and I should increment and j should be decrement at.
Not while doing so in reverse of I.
I should copy the characters from str of J.
Now this look will reverse copy all the contents of STR to arrive.
Then at the end I should take a review of length equal to null character.
That's String Terminator.
Now before checking palindrome or not, I will see out V and see whether it has reversed or not.
Yes, it has reversed a string, so I got the same as reverse of str.
Now.
As for displaying, I will compare two strains that is RTV is same as STR or not.
So here I will say str dot compare with RB if you remember compare function.
I have explained them in one of the video.
It will return zero if they are equal.
If it is returning zero, then I will say palindrome.
Right then.
And I'll also else I will say not a palindrome.
Not a palindrome.
And enter.
Let us run and see.
Yes.
It is showing palindrome.
Madam is a palindrome.
That's all.
Just, like, perfect.
Let me try a few more.
What?
Malayalam.
Yes.
It's a palindrome holiday.
It's not a palindrome, so it's working perfectly.
I'll give you one more challenge.
I will take one capital letter and the rest of them small letters.
Let us see what it will say.
Not a palindrome.
Actually, it's a palindrome, but the first letter is capital.
So when you reverse, it will become a a capital M.
So that's why these two are not same.
Now, how to handle this situation?
You take care of it.
So there's a new challenge for you.
Let's all in this video practice this program.